we'll begin our discussion of logical functions by talking about the if function,
the most frequently used of excels,
logical functions That's open up.
If statements 01 on what would be doing here is to create a function which will calculate a
person's age based on their date of birth.
The basic calculation to do in this it's simply to subtract there.
Europe ER from the current year that we have a person who was born on 17th of October 1997
on the current day is reporting Bob's over 2017.
A person is approximately 20 years old,
I say consummately because this is only true once the person has reached his or her
birthday.
Up until then,
what we'd have to do is to subtract the year of birth from the current year events
attractive for one.
So as of now,
this person is actually 19.
It's only when we reach the 17th of October that she will actually become 20.
So to express this,
we use an if statement and the if statement takes three parameters.
First,
we have a logical test.
In other words,
a test which has to have trouble holes is the result,
then we have a value.
True,
what would be like to put into the cell containing the formula?
If the test proves to be true,
a man value is false.
What value do we want to put into the cells in the testes?
False.
The chronological test is we test into things the month on the day we'll need to use the
armed function to combine them.
The and function is another a common excel logical function,
and it simply takes a series of logical tests.
So first test,
we'll use the month function to extract the month from the date of birth and check to see
whether that's greater than the current month.
And then we do exactly the same thing for the day.
So both of those tests are true.
This means that the logical test for the if statement will also be true.
So that's how the and works all of the logical tastic contains,
have to be true in order for the end to return.
True on that causes,
we do it all.
Only one of the logical tests needs to be true.
So in the case of this person about logical test is true the month is 10 in both cases,
and in the case of the day,
the day of the birth date is 17.
That's greater than or equal to 14 which is the current day.
So this means that this person,
finally true,
will kick in.
We said practically,
you're a birth from the current year and then we subtract the further one.
If the logical has proved to be false,
Ben for value it force,
we would simply subtract the year of birth from the current year.
So back in Excel,
let's create our formula because we'll be split in this formula onto several lines.
Let's begin by increasing the size of the formula bar.
They've got plenty of space to work in.
So we start with the if function,
which contains everything else.
And once we type equals.
If on the opening for emphasis,
Excel duly displays the three arguments that we need logical test on your true and that any
false psychological test,
we're going to use the and function and then inside it,
we put out to logical tests.
So let's start by test in the month.
So we want to see whether the month of the date of birth,
which issued in season two.
It's greater than or equal to the month of the current date,
which we can pick up using the Today function that today function is one of those rare
functions which doesn't take any arguments.
But because it is a function you still need to put the opening and closing parentheses
after the name of the function.
And then we put one further closing parenthesis to finish off the month function.
That's the first logical test inside out hand.
We put a comma.
Now I'm gonna press old enter.
To go on to a new line on this is purely to increase the readability of very subtlety in
formula.
We can then use the space bar to move along,
and it's a line the second parameter of the and function under the first.
So now we tested day and again we're testing whether the day of F two is greater than or
equal to the day off the current date that completes our and statement.
And just to emphasize the fact that is nested inside the statement,
that's just press fault.
Enter one final time,
put the clothes in parenthesis aligned with the opening parenthesis from two lines above.
So that entire and statement constitutes the first argument all its containing if statement
.
And then that argument is followed by a comma readability.
Let's Pressel center again,
and now we're align in underneath the first argument of the if statement.
So just with the end,
which was the first argument,
So for value is true,
which is the second parameter of the if statement,
we need to say,
Take the year off the current date,
using today again and subtract from it the year off the date of birth.
What is enough to immense attractive?
Further one because with our test has proved,
is that this person hasn't yet had her birthday.
And then we put a common to separate the second argument from the third,
and let's then put the third on a separate line.
You did or enter on space bar so the value falls will be virtually identical.
It's just that we won't be subtracted one at the end,
leaving just copy this on paste.
It's as I said,
and final arguments.
I'll just press old enter again and put the clothes in parenthesis of the if statement
approximately in line with the open parenthesis,
and that completes our formula.
So as we have seen,
this person hasn't had her birthday.
So when we press center,
she should be 19.
And then,
of course,
once the 17th comes around,
if we opened this worksheet again,
this statement will no longer evaluated.
True,
it will evaluate to false,
which means that the third argument will kick in on her age,
will be displayed as 20.
That completes our formula.
That's presenter.
Restore the normal science of the formula bar.
A man just lived to the auto fill handle in the bottom right of the cell and double click
to copy that formula down.
That's an example,
or using a fairly simple,
if statement.
But even in this example,
in order to get the result that we needed,
you've noticed that we've had to nest several functions inside the if statement in the next
video,
we'll continue exploring this concept of nest in one function inside another by looking at
the use of nested ifs.
This is where we have one if statement nested inside another